Let's remove a couple of columns and let's say we only have two left
and that would be a more common use case, that we want to have two items sit next to each other.
Now as I reload here, we see two columns here on the small screen and on the big screen, where they of
course take up way more space. Now
a common scenario would be that you don't want to take up that much space here on a screen, so you
can control that with the size attribute on every column.
You could say after 12 columns you could possibly take,
you should take let's say 10 and the second item here should take 1, that would be a possible split.
Now we have one column unassigned but that's okay, we'll just have an empty space at the end here,
right,
like this.
So this already shows you how you can think about that.
It's not that you don't have to split the available space equally, here
I'm certainly not doing that,
instead you have 12 columns you can play with and you can distribute that space however you want
and you don't have to assign all 12 columns
and indeed, that's not what we did on the discover page either.
If we have a look at our discover page
here,
you see that I'm basically only assigning 8 columns here of the 12 available and I'll come
back to what this sm thing means and how it works in details
soon. You could of course also say that you want to have four columns each and therefore, we have four
columns left over
and now we see four and four, that looks about equal and then we have an equally sized space left over.
Now what about centering though? That is where this offset thing comes into play.
You can not just assign the size of a column,
you can also tell the Ionic grid how much is should be offset from the left.
So here, you could say offset 4 for example and what this means is this column will be pushed to the
right by four columns and then it will have a width of four columns. This column then automatically comes
after,
so on the right of the first column because it comes after the first column here in the order of HTML
code and therefore this starts four columns in is four columns wide, this therefore starts eight
columns in, four plus four and then is also four columns wide
and this gives us the layout where we will have that empty space on the left and our columns take up
the space on the right.
Now if you want to center it,
the solution of course is to just push this in two columns
so that we have an equally open space to the left and to the right of two columns each
because we pushed the first column in by two columns, then this has a width of four columns, therefore
the second column starts six columns in, two, two plus four and then takes four columns of width.
So of the 12 columns, we have two plus four plus four makes ten columns occupied, two columns are empty,
eight columns do contain content and the other two columns on the right are left empty and that gives
us this centered layout,
this is essentially also what we're using on the discover page. Now that already gives you an idea of
how you can play around with that
and of course, you can do the same when using six columns or eight columns. You can really play around with
sizes and offsets to control how the items are rendered on the screen.